>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
let's talk through the solution to part 3.
First thing is I'll show how we
implement that project module factory.
So, here's the project function.
The only piece of input data that it needs
to take is the description because it's
gonna generate its own ID, and we're
gonna use API methods to update the time.
So it takes in a description,
immediately generates its own ID,
keeps track of the work, and also,
the total time for that given project.
Here's the public API.
We've got a couple of getters,
we have a getId, a getDescription,
a getTime to return those pieces of
information to the calling program.
Rather than returning or
giving access to the actual variables,
we use access or functions to get at them.
Then we have a couple of,
then we have a mutating function,
mutator that's called addWork.
That's how we add work into the project.
That will add an entry into the work
array and update the time and so forth.
And then we have moved our
getWork entry count and
our getWork entry location functions
from app over into this function.
Because they actually are relevant
to the given project.
Whereas before we had to pass in a project
ID, those functions now don't need
a project ID at all,
because we already know which project,
they're being called against
the project instance.
So we can simply call getWork entry
count and return the work length.
GetWork entry location still
needs a work entry ID, but
the logic is the same, it just doesn't
need to figure out what project to do that
against since we already know that.
So it simplified that code to have this
isolated to a given project instance.
Now we're gonna be calling
this project function
to create instances of the project
each time we make one.
So let's go to our app data model.
You will notice instead of
making project entry data and
all that other stuff like
we were doing before.
Now I just called it capital P project
function pass in the description and
get a project object back.
I don't need to deal with any of those
details because those are handled by
the project factory.
So I just get a reference
to a project object and
that's what I store in my
projects array here on line 214.
That more cleanly separates
the concern between my data model and
the stuff that can be abstracted
into these project instances.
You'll also notice that
now that project object
is the thing that project instance
is the thing that I pass around.
Instead of passing around project ID,
project description all of that is
separate individual pieces of data, I'm
just gonna ship that project object around
and you can call the, the access or
methods as you see fit.
So it simplifies the passing between
the app model and the UI model.
Same thing down here with adwork
to project, we simplified
quite a bit our findProjectEntry
simply gives us a project instance,
we can call adwork on it to let it
delegate the job of handling the work.
And then we can pass project along
to any UI methods as we see fit.
So what you'll notice here is that
by creating this abstraction,
we actually have simplified
the reasoning of code.
And that's the hallmark
of good abstraction.
Abstraction's not about hiding things.
Abstraction is about making independent
things easier to reason about.
So we've made this piece easier to reason
about by taking the parts that were
cluttering it up with other stuff and
moving them to a different location.
So we can independently think about
the project separate from thinking
about the data model logic that's
the key idea behind obstruction and
the module here was pretty good use for
us, now I wanna address something.
A small elephant in the room because
we're creating multiple instances of this
project and most people's preferences or
their instinct would be to say,
well I should be instantiating some class.
You would think,
why am I not doing a new here?
Why am I not instantiation some class?
The point that I'm trying to make, is that
there's nothing unique about classes,
in terms of our ability to create a data
model abstraction and instantiate things.
There's nothing specific to the class
design pattern that requires us to go that
route to accomplish that.
Here, we just need a module instance, so
I can just call that
module factory function.
I don't need to be creating some instance
of a class to accomplish that goal.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So, in this case,
you don't have any effect right?
Not hurt anything if you
put new project right here,
it will still work the same way, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: It would not break
anything but it would actually be less
performant because, the new keyword, we'll
get into this later, but the new keyword
actually creates object instances and
would throw those away.
>> Speaker 2: Would that
communicate to people that you're
actually creating something new?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, I think that's
a terrible idea, to communicate to them
something that's not actually happening.
The new keyword says I'm making
an instance of something.
That's different from module
factories,so if you're doing a module
factory, it should look like
a module factory not like
a class.
>> Kyle Simpson: When I see the new
keyword, my assumption's gonna be,
you're trying to instantiate a class.
If you don't do that,
you're creating a stumbling block for me.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
The usage in the UI functions Is
more straightforward because now we
receive a project.
So for example, here on line 117,
I call getId on the project object, and
that's how I get my project Id, and I call
getDescription to get the description.
I add them to the dom elements so there's
a nice clean separation there as well.
Same with that ProjectToList.
If you're still feeling a bit fuzzy
about this whole module pattern and
how to use it,
not just as a syntactic approach, but
as an actual design pattern and
architecture that drives the design
of your software I strongly recommend that
you put a mental bookmark to go back and
try this exercise a few
more times from scratch.
Try your hand at it so
that you get more experienced with that.